I would say one of the real reflections of what I'm talking about. I saw that this dance, you could put hiphop, you could put flamenco, you can fuse jazz you can fuse ballet, All the different forms of dance is an open forum in this music in this dance cause you see it on stage and then one other things I used to always tell my dances and this is what I say always mention Frankie martinez also Franklin diaz.
여러분은 살사에 힙합을 가미할 수도 있고, 플라멩코를 넣을 수도 있고, 재즈, 발레와 퓨전시킬 수도 있습니다. 모든 다양한 형태의 댄스를 이 음악에선 자유롭게 사용할 수 있습니다. 제 학생, 댄서들에게 항상 해왔던 말이며 프랭키, 프랭클린 디아즈에게도 항상 했던 말입니다.

These are dances when I met myself, listen I'm going to teach you a little bit I know, I'm going to teach it to you but at the end of the day I want you to go out there and make this your own bring in your own style your own ideas and develop who you are, your person. and I've seen Frankie throughout the years, he's definitely done that.
He's got his own style his own unique and every unit, you've been dancing - (to Frankie) how long? (Frankie says '20 years')
제가 알고 있는 것을 여러분에게 가르쳐 드릴 수 있지만, 저는 결국 언젠가는 여러분들이 스스로의 스타일을 찾고 스스로의 아이디어로, 여러분 만의 것을 찾기를 바랍니다. 프랭키도 정확하게 이렇게 자신의 것을 만들어 가는 것을 저는 그 동안 지켜봐왔습니다. 그는 그의 스타일을 가지고 있고, 그의 유일한 것을 가지고 있습니다. 프랭키, 춤춘지 얼마나 됐지? 20년이요.

and Edwin knows, Edwin was part of the hot break boy, yes (laugh)
I'd love to share it to you.
it's a Billy with Henry knows as DJ the Eddie torres Orchestra on one side and Marc Anthony on the other.
This was the Marc Anthony started at .. with long hair.
And I was telling the story as when he first started and everybody, you know, his first album was for, .. one of my favorites, "Otra Nota" (eng: Other Note)
빌리와 헨리는 에디 또레스 오케스트라의 DJ로 알려져 있습니다. 다른 한 편으론 마크 앤쏘니가 있지요. 그가 활동을 시작할 때는 매우 긴 머리였습니다ㅎㅎ 그의 첫 앨범은 저도 정말 좋아하는 유명한 앨범으로 “Otra Nota” (Other Note) 였지요.

so I'm in the DJ booth with Henry, and Marc .. with his band already set up on stage. and they started to play one of the songs, and he came in and grabbed the microphone like this, and right to the people all the people are facing this way and he's walking right through them starting to sing in front of the people where is he?
저는 DJ 부스 안에 핸리와 있었습니다. 마크 앤쏘니와 그의 밴드는 무대 위에서 준비를 마쳤습니다. 그들은 노래 하나를 부르기 시작헀고, 그는 다가와서 마이크를 잡고 사람들 앞에서 노래하기 시작했습니다.

He came the real cool all right through the crowd, saw the sickness song, and of course ... on stage, everybody went crazy. you know
They would even dance, they were just singing along with him, you know. 
People, you never believe this (???)
So, where he gone a he said,
그는 대중들 앞에서 매우 쿨했습니다. 모든 사람들이 열광했지요. 그들은 춤까지 췄습니다.

he started singing, maybe ones up to the stage, people (gesture) and grabs his jewels.
He get out scream like michael Jackson. (laugh) I mean, I sitting there and I 'Jesus to  ...' (laugh)
Everybody has .. horror. but I was also .. she went .. (laugh)
Well, I .. don't forget them because he really yells scream,  ... I'm sure after that he has a security guard in the front .. .. you know.
That's wow, what years that, Marc Anthony so singing...
마크가 노래할 때 누군가 무대위로 올라와서 그의 장신구 하나를 움켜쥐었습니다. 그는 비명을 마이클 잭슨처럼 질렀습니다. … 그 당시엔 호러 같았어요. 그가 정말 비명지르고 했던 그 순간을 저는 잊지 못할겁니다. 확신하길 그 이후로 그는 앞에 보안 가드들을 뒀다는 거죠.

People ask me all the time.
"Hey, do you remember here 25 years .. my brother?"
...I met people last week but I don't remember like a movie like Memento. (laugh)
사람들은 매번 저에게 묻습니다.
“안녕하세요, 여기 25년 전에… 했는데 기억나세요?”
저는 지난 주 만난 사람들도 영화 메멘토 (단기 기억상실증 환자가 주인공) 처럼 기억하지 못합니다. ㅋㅋ

Anyway, how can I express the feelings I have as being blessture .. one another .. years to help
I would say, if you don't see I don't know beautiful brother in New York and once set this New York together, and we were talking about Eddie Torres and Anthony ,
Eddie Torres!! no no no
Eddie Torres is a cultural hero. Why? Cause he kept fighting along between the Puente when this dance was going down, everybody jumped off the mambo boat and they get on the hustle boat, when the hustle hit New York ate took over
에디 또레스와 마크 앤쏘니에 대해 이야기 했습니다.
에디 또레스는 문화적 영웅입니다. 왜냐하면 살사 댄스가 침체기를 겪는 시기에 티토 푸엔테와 함께 이를 극복하기 위해 고군분투했기 때문입니다. 그 당시는 모든 사람들이 맘보의 배에서 나 뛰어내려 허슬이라는 뉴욕을 집어삼킨 새로운 유형의 댄스로 옮겨 타는 시기였습니다.

And I'll tell you back to those days it was hard for me to get a student my .. student, 17 years old Frankie.
and I would ask people let me perform for free just like to keep the mambo in the people's eyes so that they still see it was a beautiful dance. it was even hard to get a Frankie. 
I was there I'll dance for free "no no no you don't need that" The Hustle is what's happening.
"Can I share the story with you people?"
(audiences) "Yes"
그 시절 얘기를 하자면 그 땐 정말 수강생 찾기가 힘들었습니다. 저는 사람들이 여전히 맘보에 애정을 갖는 것을유지시키기 위해 사람들에게 무료로 공연을 하겠다고 했습니다. 그러나 필요로 하질 않았죠. 그 시절 얘기를 한번 해볼까요,.

I'm in the mask on well before I got there they had a latin concert.
Anybody whose .. any of those rock-hard .. concert back in the day?
Whose  ....last at least 3 or 4 hours right?
It would have music and intermission music, so I called Ralph worked with the Tito at the concert.
"no no no Eddie, not this time. We got the disco dance dimensions that I got to perform a halftime in the intermission. I don't think it's a good idea to put on the latin dance thing."
I said "What? 
about .. latin concert with latin music for about 4 hours? And you're not going to feature a little bit of latin dancing? I don't understand that, so I was bothered I was actually hurt by this. so I called Tito. And I said Tito
"I just want to Ralphy  ... I was thinking out .. he wants to .. and he said no that he's gonna feature the hustle dancers."
And Tito said "And you don't listen to the Ralphy. I'll take care.. You gonna go with me. I'll take care everything, right?"
랄피 말 들을 필요 없어. 내가 책임 지지. 넌 나랑 함께하게 될거야. 내가 다 책임지마

So, when I get the Tito .. so he said "Eddie, you got some improve your life, we got some rule the tonight"
Because I  ... and he wants to feature hustle dancing in the latin concert.
He said "You'd better get out there, you'd better really work it tonight."
He said "You'd lay down!"
That's the way Tito say. So Im .. no pressure  ... 긴장안했다 (웃음)
에디 오늘 잘해야돼. 우리 이 밤을 완전히 잡아버리자

What do we do? Palladium days. We played that tune faster than I ever dance in my life (laugh) We .ed the closest that eye grapers.
Palladium days를 연주했습니다. 우리는 내 인생에서 가장 빠르게 춤을 췄습니다

We are real on fire, The crowd actually got up like halfway cool II don't know where they were they were with us
진짜 불구덩이에 있는 듯 했습니다. 관객들을 다 일어났고 우리와 함께 했습니다.

And then Tito, Tito first ..
"Old school palladium dances youre right now.."
But we finished "So, how do you like the latin dance?"
And this is after the hustle dance company have performed which was  ... phenomenal by the way, they were really good.
But I believe that with the people's applause and their screaming they were sending a message.
Hey if you  ...bring us .. here cities before hours to listen to latin music, you'd better put on some latin dancing on that stage. 
And that's what I fought where they response to the people, and I fought that that's what they were saying. 
And then he walks up the Ralph Mercado, after we finished and he goes "so what you got to say now?" (laugh)
처음에는 고전 팔라디움 댄스를 보게 될겁니다…
끝나고 나서는, 여러분 라틴 댄스 어떠셨나요?
우리는 허슬 댄스팀 다음에 들어갔습니다. 그들도 진짜 잘했어요. 그러나 저는 관객들의 박수와 환호성이 메시지를 보내고 있다고 생각했습니다. 우리에게 라틴 음악을 들려줄 거라면, 거기에는 라틴 댄스를 곁들어 보여줘야해
이것이 사람들의 반응을 이끌게 투쟁한 바이고, 그들이 이렇게 말하도록 노력했습니다. 
우리가 마친 후, 랄프가 걸어왔습니다. “그래서, 이제 뭐라고 말할거야?” (웃음)

"Alright, alright, you prove your point, isn't it."
"Don't ever mention .. like this bro. Don't ever"
"It's a .., it's okay. All the dancers
“좋아요, 좋아, 당신은 당신의 요지를 잘 증명했어요”
“다시는 그런 말을 하지 말아주세요”
“네, 알겠어요”
......
WE WANT LATIN

In the mid-eighties, Latin was out and the hustle was in and it was very hard to get work as a Latin dancer. On one occasion, Eddie wanted to dance in a Latin concert at Madison Square Garden where Tito Puente was playing, but Ralph Mercado said, "Naw, no, no. I got the Disco Dance Dimensions for the intermission show. I don't see no need for you to be out there. That's not what the people want." Feeling hurt and upset, Eddie explained his frustration to Tito, "I'm not asking for money. I just want to go out and do my thing with you." Tito assured him, "Don't worry about it, baby. I'm gonna bring you in as the Tito Puente Dancers and I'm going to tell Ralphy he doesn't have to worry about nothing."
80 년대 중반, 라틴이 저물고 허슬이 뜨기 시작하면서 라틴 댄서로 일하기 매우 어려웠습니다. 어느 날, 에디는 티토가 연주하던 매디슨 스퀘어 가든의 라틴 콘서트에서 춤을 추고 싶었지만 랄프는 "아니, 아니, 나는 인터미션 (공연 중간 휴식시간) 공연에 올릴 디스코 댄스 디멘젼이 이미 있네. 당신이 거기에 올라갈 일은 없을 거야. 사람들은 그것을 원하지 않아." 에디는 상처 받고 화가 나서 티토에게 좌절감을 설명했습니다. "나는 돈을 바라는 게 아니에요. 저는 나가서 단지 당신과 함께 제가 해야 할 것을 하고 싶을 뿐이에요.” 티토는 에디를 안심 시켰습니다. "걱정 말거라, 내가 티토 푸엔테 댄서로 해서 널 데려 갈거고, 랄피에게 아무것도 걱정하지 말라고 할께”

Ralph Mercado, RMM

The night of the concert, the Disco Dance Dimensions put on a crowd-pleasing show. Immediately after, Tito Puente played Para Los Rumberos, and got the crowd into a frenzy. Then, he signaled the dancing duo onto the stage to perform Palladium Days, a very fiery, intense mambo. Sternly, Eddie forewarned Maria, "I want you to dance blood." They danced as if they were on fire. Tito had a big ol' smile. And a pleased Ralph Mercado looked on from the sidelines. The roaring crowd in the Garden gave them a standing ovation, sending out a clear message: they preferred to see Latin dancing accompanying the Latin music. They wanted to let Ralph and everyone know, "Hey, that's what we want."
콘서트가 열리는 밤에, Disco Dance Dimensions 관객들을 기쁘게 하는 쇼 했습니다. 바로 그 다음 티토는 Para Los Rumberos를 연주하며 관객들을 열광시켰습니다. 그리고, 댄스 듀오를 무대 위로 불러 매우 격렬하고 강렬한 맘보인 Palladium Days를 공연하도록 했습니다. 에디는 엄중하게 마리아에게 말했습니다. “당신 이번에 피가 나도록 춤추길 바래요.” 에디와 마리아는 마치 불길 위에 있는 것처럼 춤을 췄습니다. 티토는 큰 미소를 지었습니다. 그리고 랄프는 옆쪽에서 기뻐하며 쳐다보고 있었습니다. 관객들은 매우 열광하며 기립 박수를 보냈고, 명확한 메시지를 보냈습니다. 관객들은 라틴 음악을 동반 한 라틴 댄스를 보는 것을 더 좋아했습니다. 그들은 랄프를 비롯한 모두에게 "이봐, 이게 바로 우리가 원하는 거야.”라는 것을 알리고 싶어 했습니다.

After that evening, Ralph Mercado started calling Eddie to do shows with him. In the nineties, Ralphy introduced his own captivating dance troupe called the RMM Dancers, who animate his concerts with sensuous salsa dancing, though Eddie's group continues to appear at RMM gigs.
그날 저녁 이후, 랄프는 에디를 불러 함께 쇼를 진행했습니다. 90 년대, 랄프는 RMM 무용단이라는 자신 만의 독창적 인 무용단을 선보였습니다. 에디의 그룹이 RMM 공연에 계속 출연하긴 하지만, RMM 무용단도 감각적 살사 댄스로 콘서트에 활력을 불어넣었습니다.
http://www.eddietorresny.com/Eddie_Torres_Latin_Dance_Studio/Eddie_Torres_Bio.html
.........

(에디업적3 온투 만듬 카운트/이론 접목으로 대중화, 70년대라틴->허슬 넘어가던시대를 티토와 공연엄청난춤사위로대중을 흥분시키며 라틴 시대를 영속시킴)

"This is our culture, this is our music, don't disrespect this like that, you know?"
So, that's one thing I thought really really  ... cause I have spent my entire life trying to help to keep this share it and I see all New York people enjoying it. And all I can say is Im gonna  ... around don't let this die people! Let everything all the new dances come in, this is a big .. we have a room for everything!
But just because the mambo back in the day, from the 50s, don't throw it overboard, don't let him die.
It crawls back with new names every once in a while, because  ...about mambo, chachacha. and now it's Salsa.
“이것이 우리의 문화이고 우리의 음악입니다. 이것을 다시는 그런 식으로 모욕하지 말아주세요”
저는 제 모든 인생을 이것을 지키고 나누기 위해 노력했고, 모든 뉴욕인들이 이것을 즐기는 것을 지켜봤습니다. 사람들을 죽게 두지 마세요, 모든 춤을 받아들이게 두세요, 우리는 모든 것을 받아들일 큰 그릇이 있습니다.
그러나 지난 50년대부터 ..  시기마다 새로운 이름을 가지게 되었습니다. 맘보,, 차차차, 그리고 지금 이것은 살사라고 불립니다.

It's okay. When they first says Tito "Tito, European wants the difference between Mambo and Salsa."
티토에게 “티토, 유럽인들은 맘보와 살사의 차이점을 알기를 원해요.”
“그건 쉽지, 맘보는 우리가 추는 거고, 살사는 먹는거야”
“왜 이걸 살사라고 부르나요”
“자, 젊은
"That's easy. The mambo we dance and the Salsa we eat it." (laugh)

"Why do we call this Salsa?"
He says "That's just .."
And I say "Now I'm telling you the young people now .. because they are already been now closed to fifteen maybe twenty years now they make Salsa is now known for this dance be careful .. somebody .. time that makes this  ... on 2(laugh)

We got to fight .. people. This country we got to keep your language alive, I think  ... (Spanish).. when you know it answer in English. 
But I thank God because do you have any Peurto Rico in the house? (Peurto Ricans are applausing) Dominicans?
Dominicans, how do you say James Bond in Dominican Lingo? "Jame Bon.."
I'm gonna tell you how do you say "BBondgo  ..." (laugh)
우리는 싸워야 합니다. 이 나라에서 여러분의 언어가 없어지지 않게 잘 지속되도록 노력해야 합니다. 
푸에트리코, 도미니칸 언어 관한 얘기 … 쿠바, 멕시칸 국가성 얘기…

One other things in.., around the world
Cubans  .....
Different nationalities,
Mexicans,  ....

Anyways, I'm having a wonderful weekend  ... we guys have a good time..
All the dancing, and the drinking, and all the bouncing, and all the physical activities (laugh)
That's what I say .. this is the most

But anyway, if you still have a tell(time) I'll take a little questions though, may I? (To the workshop manger)


Q: (man) wheres life training Frankie coming out
프랭키를 어떻게 만났고, 어떻게 트레이닝 시켰나요?

It was like train Frankie coming up. (Eddie loudly repeat the man's question for the audience)

Okay, Frankie is, I remember when he first came to class, I remember he wore the glasses, right? .. Immediately, when I saw him in class I started .. teaching to him, I saw the talent right away. "Oh, this brother came here with a special talent." and of course for a teacher, Frankie should've obsessed . when a teacher has the opportunity and the privilege of working with talents, I mean everybody may have talents but some of us just were born with special talents like Michael Jackson, agree? 
People let me know for the moments you look at the .. this personal's born depends a born to see. and so when I met Frankie and saw his talent and I remember Frankie come from dancing the Mambo .. right? You basilly saw  ...
제 기억으로 프랭키가 처음 수업들을 땐 안경을 쓰고 있었습니다. 그를 가르치자 마자, 저는 곧바로 그의 재능을 보았습니다. “와, 여기 친구 진짜 특별한 재능이 있구나” 누구나 재능을 가지고 있을 수 있지만, 진짜 마이클 잭슨 같은 일부는 특별한 재능을 가지고 태어나기도 합니다. 제가 프랭키를 만났을 때, 첫눈에 그의 탈랜트를 보았습니다. 

나중에서야 그가 무술 유단자인 것을 알았습니다. “그래, 그에게 이건 쉬울거야, 그는 동작의 물리적인 신호 들에 대해 잘 아는 무술 검은띠니까” 그는 정말 잘 배워나갔습니다.
But it needly I saw the .. first, later on I found out that he .. black belt in martial arts. So I say "Okay, this would be easy for him because if he's a black belt in martial art that means he knows all about the physical sign of motion, the signs of motion. So he learned like (gesture).
So Im gonna started needly after ..

I did say "Frankie, I would love you to join my group."
And that's how we also had Franklin Diaz with us, right?
We had Seaon who came into join the ..
You probably remember better than me but I had like what I consider allstar cast, Okay?
So when I took be backward to 1999 for the first time to Peurto Rico, I think I took about dirty dances right there.
And we went there .. to perform at the Peurto Rico Congress. His brothers maybe proud the whole group I mean .. when I'm there we did a number call monty, was it there debut or ?...
(Frankie:  ...)
저는 그에게 우리 팀에 들어오라고 말했습니다.

You've rehearse before, but that's really , they let it down, I remember this Frankie perform all this set besides I wanna do to know this..
I took monty and I make him .. to call descarga
And as soon as Monty finished, ku ka ku ka kudu kudu kudu ka,, kdkdkdkd bap bapbap bapbap bara
(gesture)
He comes out  ...
And then
"isn't that another number?"
".. put together bro?" (laugh)

we had break dances in there, we had 
He's amazing, He was like 1970's Frankie, and he never dance on time
I was ..  to teach how to count to keep timing, I tried everything I could imagine
그는 놀라웠습니다. 70년대의 프랭키 같았습니다. 그러나 그는 한번도 제대로 된 박자에 춤을 추지 못했습니다. 그걸 고치기 위해 제가 생각해낼 수 있는 모든 방법을 시도했습니다. 

I think if I get you to learn how to work on time with the music it's going to damage because he had such a creativity in his choreography had nothing to do with time but the problem would do something like this you take out a match, a .. matchsticks and strike it all the ladies chest and then light a cigarette with it. He would take all the shoe(?) put in front of her face, she was freaky .. he is off.
만약 그가 박자만 잘 맞춘다면 그는 정말 대단해질거라고 생각했습니다. 왜냐하면 그의 안무는 매우 창의적이었기 때문입니다. 

He had such a creativity going on he danced on the bottom remember that?
Now after this concert 1999, we're on the way back to New York and I'm over here taking head counts counting .. will show the dance  ... and I'm come and answers ...I looked the dance, .. that's anybody see huno(? this man's name, eddie got impressed his dance)
My people until today, his not gonna able to come back to New York. They .. I did not know. Then he and I have his papers correct to travel. so sure enough when he goes to Puerto Rico as soon as, you know,
and then stop that or frankly he's walking around with pants yeah yeah,  ?no socks
아쉽게도 오늘날까지 그는 뉴욕에 돌아오지 못합니다. 
So the sad story, I've heard ....

But I had to say, he was amazing brother because he put on the show, he did better .. one time ago.

Anyway we had a time yet?

Q: Eddie, I'm Jacob. I see you before and take classes long time. I started .. carlos.. From there you're always been a legend to me. You always been a guide us. So everybody  ... taking class nina. Lovely
actually .. travelling doing ..But I just wanna ask ...
I just want to know from you what can I spread the future dancers or future students other than anything else except right now what is the main thing that you want to stay drop(?) history .. Mambo.
미래 댄서들, 학생들에게 무엇을 전해주어야 한다고 생각하나요? 맘보의 역사에서 어떤 것을 지켜나가야 한다고 생각하나요?

Beautiful brother, it's a beautiful question. The answer is very simple.
정말 아름다운 질문입니다. 대답은 매우 간단하지요.



I often now think and I say this to you  ...
cause I see all the good, and I see all the bad, and I see all the .., and I see all the ...
And I say to myself, you know what this dancing whole counts the dancing is the beautiful thing.
And my people we can use out dance and our skills and our gifts to unite people, we can use our gift to unite people. And also we can use our dance .. to divide people, to separate people.
저는 자주 그 대답에 대해 생각하는데, 한번 말해보겠습니다. 저는 많은 좋은 것들을 보았고, 나쁜 것들도 보았습니다. 이 춤은 아름다운 거라고 스스로에게 말합니다. 그리고 우리는 이 춤과 기술, 그리고 우리의 재능들을 사람들을 하나로 융화시키는데 사용할 수 있습니다. 또한 이 춤을 사람들을 나누고 분별하는데도 사용할 수 있습니다.


And I'd like to think that we could all contribute to the unity of people around the world.
Not to use of our dancing our talent as a weapon to hurt people or to cause dissension, division amongst people and so that's the only thing I think that really and I think about it's sadness to think that people we know "Ah you know, you like Cuban, Cuban is beautiful man. And you like a Puerto rico style, you're dancing on 1 or on 2.
You lose adapt your talent to unite to help, let me follow, hey, we're all good we're all family ?
그리고 우리모두가 전세계 사람들을 하나로 만들기 위해 공헌할 수 있다는 것을 생각합니다. 우리의 춤과 재능을 사람들을 상처 주는 무기로 사용하거나 사람들간의 불화, 분열을 야기하는데 사용하지 않는 것입니다. 쿠반, 푸에트리코 스타일, on1, on2 로 편을 가르지 않는 것. 사람들이 하나가 되도록 할 수 있는 재능을 잃어버리지 않는 것. 우리는 모두 한 식구입니다.


so I like to think as a family that is not easy frankly to love everybody. I've tried every day, love everybody was not easy. You know what I'm talking about?
마치 한 식구처럼 생각하길 좋아하지만, 실제 모든 이를 사랑하는 것은 쉽지 않습니다. 저도 매일 이를 실천하려고 노력하나 쉽지 않습니다. 여러분도 이해 하시겠죠?

Pleases God to see his creation his children all over the world trying to appreciate love, it's actually written in the Bible. It's says love your neighbor as love yourself.
전 세계에 있는 신의 창조물, 그의 자식들이 사랑에 감사하고자 노력하는 모습을 보는 것에 신은 기뻐한다고 성경에 쓰여있습니다. 성경에는 너 자신을 사랑하는 것처럼 이웃을 사랑하라고 말하고 있지요.

...
but every day I trying to learn to love love respect respect and love because it brings unity, okay?
매일 저는 사랑하는 것을, 존중하는 것을 배웁니다. 왜냐하면 사랑이 화합을 가져오기 때문이죠.

I often think that the problems of this world are because when that we're not .. manage, there's so much hates , so much .., so much division amongst the races amongst the different nationalities.
So for me, I would like to think it's an idealistic dream for me to think that one day we can all really learn to respect and love each other.
저는 종종 생각합니다 이 세상의 문제는 관리하지 않아서라고, 너무나 많은 증오, 국가/인종간의 차별들이 존재합니다. 그래서 저에겐 언젠가 우리는 서로를 존경하고 사랑하는 것을 진정 배우게 될 날이 올거라는 이상적인 꿈이 있습니다.

But that's probably .. my wish list,  ... I prayed  .. I .. not a good Christian but I'm .. believer I believe in Jesus Christ and my daughter now who frankly knows - since she's three years old,  dancing, now 33.
She has given her life to Jesus Christ she went to a Christian retreat when she was in college and one day she came home, "Dad, I love you with my heart, but now I'm dedicate my life to Jesus."
And I'm gonna go surfing, and I'm gonna give all of my talent, and now ... 9 years now has been involved in a Christian ministry that she has, and she goes all over to the churches, and she does Christian music choreography with messages. if you like to see some of her work and the Christian side you can visit her website she has a website called dance for Christ ministries for being  ... dance for Christ Ministries, her name is Nadia Torres.
저는 예수님을 믿지만 신실한 기독교인은 아닙니다. 지금 33살이 된 제 딸은 그녀의 삶을 예수님에게 바치기로 했습니다. 제 딸이 대학생일 때, 어느 날 집에 와서, “아버지, 전 아버지를 진짜 사랑해요, 근데 이제 저 예수님을 위해 제 삶을 바치기로 했어요.” 9년후 지금은 저도 그녀가 운영하는 기독교 단체에 참여하고 있습니다. 그녀는 모든 교회를 다니며 메시지를 담은 찬송가 안무를 춥니다. 그녀의 작업이 궁금하다면 제 딸의 이름은 Nadia Torres이고, Dance 4 Christ Ministries 웹 사이트를 가보시기 바랍니다.

And the beautiful thing is now I've thought these years to be served  ... every once in a while she was back I'm still gonna every once in a while share the stage with you.
And so I've had to prove that the cut of Mexico last year we danced together in the event called salsa fusion
I dance like, now you know I got a real great to do this Frankie, I dance a Jackson, Michael Jackson's number .. New York congress, and I say to muscle now you can .. represent .. (laugh)
지금 최근 몇 년 동안 제 딸과 같이 틈틈이 무대를 할 수 있어서 좋다는 것입니다. 작년에는 살사 퓨전이란 이벤트에 멕시코에 같이 가서 무대를 했고, 68세에 마이클 잭슨 춤을 췄습니다.ㅎㅎ

But this is the beauty of stage, hey look at this, I've shared this dance around the world I've shared this dance with my family with my wife with my daughter and Eddie Torres Jr. my son. you know. so that's another beautiful thing that I would thank that if you people, you have your children and some of you already dancing, sharing the dance, you dance with your children that's a very positive thing. 
because nothing things that I've noticed about this dance, although it can give us into trouble but it actually keeps us out of trouble, too. yes?
We are too busy in the studio learning new choreographies and studying the dance and it can give you away from a lot of negative things  ...   
이것이 무대의 아름다움입니다. 저는 세상이 이 춤을 나누었고, 가족과, 아내와, 딸, 아들 에디 또레스 주니어와 나누었습니다. 만약에 여러분이 자식이 있고, 이미 당신이 춤을 춘다면 그 춤을 가족과 나누세요, 당신의 자식들과 춤을 춘다면 정말 좋은 현상일겁니다. 그리고 그렇게 하신다면 저로써는 참 감사할 거예요.
우리는 새로운 안무를 스튜디오에서 배우기만도 너무 바쁘고, 익히기에도 바쁩니다. 그러나 이것은 많은 부정적인 것을 버리는 데 도움을 줄 것입니다.


마무리 멘트들
Ah, I have to compliment more shake and his whole crew (applause)

Although I didn't get a chance to hang out and do the whole thing with the concert. I've got an idea, you can take me out of in the stretching for sure (laugh)

but I really have to say I'm overwhelmed on the great event that you have put together .. and when I got on this boat,  ... "dad, everybody's here shit"
It's like the world Salsa Congress is here, everybody, I said the only one missing here is my wife.
yeah yeah and I'm told every morning, 

He said "you think  ... convince Maria to come?"
I said "you know what Maria has this fear about being on a boat in the middle of the ocean you know. She has her fear. But I said you know thing I'm gonna do, I'm gonna whip up a video camera today and I'm going to record all this beautiful  ....

To Frankie  ....you know Maria
I'm just love .. I traveled a lot of  ... first thing .. whatever beautiful county Italia, and all I can think 
soulmate she's put up with me for 39 years
I think I'm already  ...

Let's dance right? Let's dance!! alright, thank you guys, thank you all

I'm sure absolute  ...  good nap out of this is something 
party people, beautiful people
let's quick






Slot Dance
In slotted dances, the dance slot is an imaginary narrow rectangle within which the follower moves back and forth in relation to the leader, who is comparatively stationary.

Slotted dances include: West Coast Swing,[1] Dallas Push, Houston Whip, Supreme Swing in Tulsa, Imperial Swing in St. Louis, Alcatraz in New Orleans, Carolina Shag, DC Swing,[2] as well as variants of other dances, such as Salsa or Hustle, that may be performed in a slotted style as well.
As a rule, the leader mostly stays in the slot, leaving it only to make room for the follower to pass by. The leader almost never makes the follower circle around when passing by; they may go into a common rotational figure when the follower happens to come close, but such figures are usually in a tight position and do not change the overall "slotted" appearance.
일반적으로리더는 주로슬롯에머무르며추종자가지나갈수있는 공간을 남깁니다. 리더는 지나갈 때 팔로어 서클을 거의 만들지 않습니다. 추종자가 가까이 오면 흔히 볼 수있는 회전 숫자 가될 수 있지만 일반적으로 이러한 수치는 타이트한 위치에있으며전체"슬롯 형"모양을변경하지는않습니다.

Factors that have often been looked upon as contributing to the development of slotted dance style include:
1. Maximizing visibility for the audience, when a dance will be performed on the stage.
2. Coping with limited space for dancing.
스타일 개발에주로기여한요인은 다음과 같습니다.
무대에서무용을 할 때청중에 대한 가시성을 극대화합니다.
제한된 공간에 서춤을 춥니다.

Although most of the above-mentioned dances belong to the "West Coast Swing family" of dances, they may have developed independently. The differences have been both acknowledged and listed; Swing Dance Encyclopedia by CoupleDanceWorld lists the differences among the dances.[3]

The most typical slotted dance is West Coast Swing. The origin of this style is uncertain. There are two main theories. By one of them, the slotted style was born in Hollywood: film directors supposedly wanted to keep the performers in a straight line to keep the profiles of both dancers in sight, which also helps the camera to catch the most action, as opposed to rotational styles, in which much of the time one sees only the back of one dancer with the other dancer hidden completely. Another story is that during jazz concerts the fans were dancing in the aisles (which of course are essentially slots) and the style stuck. Still another is that this style emerged in densely packed nightcubs. None of the stories, however reasonable, has a solid confirmation.
가장 전형적인 슬롯 춤은 웨코스윙 입니다 이 작풍의 근원은 불확실하다. 두 가지 주요 이론이 있습니다. 그 중한 사람은 할리우드에서 슬롯 형 스타일이 탄생했습니다 . 영화 감독은 두 댄서의 프로필을 유지하기 위해연기자를 직선으로 유지하려고했는데 회전하는 것과는 대조적으로 카메라 가가장 많은 액션을 잡는 데도움이됩니다. 스타일은대부분의시간에다 른댄서가 완전히 감추어 진 한 댄서의 뒤를 봅니다 또 다른 이야기는 재 즈콘서트 중팬들이 통로에서춤을추고 있었고 (물론 본질적으로 슬롯이었습니다) 스타일이 고착되었습니.다 또 다른 하나는이 스타일이 밀집된 나이트캡으 로등장한다는 것입니다 합리적이긴 하지만 그 어느 이야기 도확실한 확증은 없습니.다
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dance_slot


Adagio (Acrobatics)
Adagio is the performance of partner acrobalance poses and associated movements that involve stationary balances by a pair of performers. It is performed in professional circus, in various dance disciplines including acro dance and ballet, in pair skating, and as a hobby in university circus groups.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adagio_(acrobatics)

Hustle (dance)
The Hustle is a catchall name for some disco dances which were extremely popular in the 1970s. Today it mostly refers to the unique partner dance done in ballrooms and nightclubs to disco music.[1] It has some features in common with swing dance. Its basic steps are somewhat similar to the Discofox, which emerged at about the same time and is more familiar in various European countries. In the 1970s there was also a line dance called the Hustle. Modern partner hustle is sometimes referred to as New York Hustle. People still do this dance today.

New York Hustle
The couple dance form of hustle is usually called "New York Hustle" but frequently referred to by other names including "la hustle" or "latin hustle", it is very similar to the "Detroit hustle" but counted somewhat differently. It has some resemblance to, and steps in common with, swing and salsa dancing. As in the Latin dances, couples tend to move within a "spot" on the dance floor, as opposed to following a line of dance as in foxtrot, or as opposed to tracking within a slot as in West Coast Swing or LA Hustle.

One similarity between hustle and swing is that the lead takes the back-forward steps from his left foot; however it is not exactly a rock step (there is no rocking action because of speed) and if the dance is taught by counting, the steps happen at the beginning of the count ? "and-one, two, three" rather than at the end of the count as in swing ? "left, right, rock-step".

The dance is somewhat unusual rhythmically because of the syncopation it is associated with. Most dances are danced with either 4/4 or 3/4 music with counting to match, with either a triple or duple base depending on the dance. The New York hustle is generally danced to 4/4 music but counted as a six beat pattern. "1 2 &a3 4 5 &a6" this is "L R LR L R LR" in the leader's pattern and the natural opposite of the follower's pattern.

NY style latin hustle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i8vuhgOQkPI
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8OmVRDR_2lY
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hsKVWCDiV0g
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8KEyrEyggvM

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hustle_(dance)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m2Gi1Ccju2g

....
http://www.salsacrazy.com/salsaroots/eddietorres.htm
....




